-------
title: First Post 
description: The customary first post.
-------

# First Post

This is the usual first post of any blog. I will hold on to my tradition and tell you how I built this. I wanted to build a blog for a really long time now, to both vent my fury sometimes but mostly to share interesting things one finds when he spends 60% of his day scrolling through feeds from a wide array of website such as Facebok, Twitter, Medium and on total boredom Quora. 

So I went on to build this blog initially using basic PHP and I was successful. But I never bothered to maintain it and I got really irritated by it just because coding and maintaining PHP websites is a tedious and unnecessary task. So I gave it up for Ruby on Rails. But mid semester exams intervened leading to stall of that project. I will try to complete it even though I like this one better just because doing that would be stepping stone on the path of learning Ruby on Rails. 

So after 2 failed attempts and an overload of Haskell due to my projects I came to realize that the best project I could take up was to create a XML parser to build my blog. I did create the parser in one night but then I realized using XML was not the best idea either. There were better options. I could probably parse Markdown to get it done. I started to build a markdown parser, but then Google School of Code intervened and that project had to be abandoned too since it was not exactly a 4 hour project. It required continous effort for atleast 24-36 hours, to completely parse the Markdown and get the Blog up and running. And even then I needed to set it up with Github for full deployment. At this moment I was in dire need of something that was highly customizable, fast but not basic HTML and did not require me to write large amounts of code since I was in the middle of learning Erlang and I did not wanna distract myself. I needed something which I could get done in the time I take off as breaks. 

And then I landed on Hakyll. I had been trying to avoid it since I found it too super ficial. But finally I bent and set it up. But the sheer beauty of the ease of use and plain code reminded me yet again that functional programming is the best kind of programming. Which brings us to this point of time, where I am writing my first blog post while simaltaneously setting up required links to push the blog to Github and writing whatever small amount of code I must to make sure that blogging becomes even easier.

### Finally

On a side not I would like to discuss what all went wrong when I was setting this up but that is another story itself, so I will do that in the next post. 
